# Description/Motivation

This is a small simulation of the purest version of the Look-Then-Leap or 'Secretary' Problem, a problem which I encountered in chapter 1 of "Algorithms to Live By: The Computer Science of Human Decisions" by Brian Christian and Tom Griffiths. The purest version of the problem is as such: you are interviewing people for a job (hypothetically to be a secretary), and you can rank people against each other absolutely. At each candidate, you can either hire on the spot, or pass, but if you pass, you cannot go back and hire this person later (variations of the problem change this condition, and perhaps I will explore it another time). Effectively, the probelem is to find the threshold number of candidates after which, if you see the best candidate you have seen so far, you should hire. My initial thought was 50% of the way through, but, as I learned in the book (and further validated in this simulation), the optimal number is a tad before it--37%. The problem and its variations have many applications outside of hiring--when to park, buy an appartment, and propose marriage are all forms of look-then-leap problems.

My simulation is pretty basic, and I hope to expand upon it later. It effectively creates an array of candidates which, since we assume to be able to rank purely, I represent as an array of 100 scores (representing 100 candidates) randomly given between 0 and 1,000,000. I then simulated by choosing each position between 0 and 99 to be the threshold position, 1000 times per position, and tracked the success rate for choosing this position as the threshold. Finally, graphing was done with matplotlib. Please check out the attached python code and graph, and contact me if you have read with book and/or are interested in this problem!
